---
categories: [trips]
---
# Nepal

## Trying to get to Kathmandu - Fallout from the crash
Just my luck that there was an plane crash a few days before I was due to arrive
at KTM. It wasn't a serious crash; the front wheel collapsed on landing and there
were no casualties. The problem was that Nepal didn't have the equipment to clear
the runway. This meant that the only runway at the only international airport in
the country was blocked. They had to wait 2 weeks for equipment to be bought in by road
from neighbouring India. They cancelled hundreds of flights.

Apparently I was phoned up and advised not to turn up to LHR because my flight was cancelled and they were
not sending anyone else to DXB because all the hotels were full. I made some bullshit
up about joining an expedition and how it would cock it up for 10s of people if I
wasn't there. Anyway... a bit more bullshitting and they let me on the flight. When I
was in the air between LHR and DXB they reopened KTM. After a bit more faffing in DXB
I was on my way to KTM. This is where it got a little bit interesting. We got all the
way to Kathmandu and we put in a holding pattern whilst waiting for a landing slot.
The trouble was, so was everyone else. We were holding for a hour or so and then the
pilot casually announced that we were running out of fuel and aborting to Lucknow, India.
I loved the casual nature of the pilot but a few people got anxious. We then landed at
Lucknow, refueled (apparently 100% capacity for 1 hour journey) and resumed our holding
pattern over KTM. Eventually after a few hours we got a slot and landed.

Then absolute chaos ensured. KTM was totally overcapacity. The baggage system failed.
I have never seen such madness in my entire life. There were piles of luggage 6 foot high
and emotional people trying to find their luggage. They were vaguely in piles per flight -
I managed to find my flights pile but not my bag. I then phoned up Jen (my host) and she said
it'd been chaos for days and apparently people were just leaving and returning the next day
to find their bags. There was no customs on the baggage hall, anyone could just walk
in and out. Anyway I persevered and eventually found my bag far from the flights pile -
madness. Then I fought for a taxi into town.

## Kathmandu
My pal (Lodi), who was meant to have arrived a week before me, was still stuck in KUL
(he has his own flight diversion story).
So I had to hang out with Jen (his fincee) and explore KTM on my own. KTM was awesome
I was very privilege to visit a month before the terrible earthquake, so I explored the
city, place TBC. It was truly stunning. I got a local sim and managed to get word that
Lodi was in the air and would arrive this afternoon. I then continued exploring, set some
postcards and settled into a bar for a beer and waited for Lodi. Lodi eventually turned
up and we grabbed some chili chicken, which seems to be the staple diet out in KTM for
Westerners.

## The guides

## Into the mountains

## Beyond Nache Bazaar

## Island Peak

## Lobuche East

## The run back to Luklar via Namche Bazaar

## Kathmandu (again)

## Pokhara
monsoon from airport to town.

## The drive
It was pissing it down in Pokhara again and I'd had enough. I wanted to go off and explore.
I asked my host ? where I could find a land rover to go off in. An hour later one turned
up. In typical Nepali fashion it didn't have a working hand-break! I was going to be driving
it mountainous country and it didn't have a hand-break. I was going to refuse it but
the alternative was sitting in bar watching the rain. My host ? negotiated on my behalf
and insisted that the chap delivering the vehicle would be my co-driver for the day. This
was a bit strange at first but turned out to be a godsend. Without him I wouldn't have been
so adventurous.

## Kayaking - part 1 - easy day

## Kayaking - part 2 - boring day

## Kayaking - part 3 - near death

## Kayaking - part 4 - recovery

## Kathmandu (last days)
